#summary Installation guide
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

=pyPassport Installation Instructions=

Until pyPassport reach a stable state the installation has to be done from source. Later binary packages will be released for the following platforms:

  * Windows (.exe)
  * Linux   (.deb/.rmp)
  * Mac OSX (if possible, mpkg/dmg?)

==Sources==

===Supported platforms===
Any platform capable of running [http://www.python.org/ Python] 2.5/2.6 (and C based module).
pyPassport has been successfully installed from sources on Windows, Linux (Ubuntu) and Mac OSX.

===Dependencies===

pyPassport is build on top of some other open-sources libraries. All of them are mandatory to use pyPassport.

pyPassport also uses other open-source tools to perform specific processing, installing those tools is not mandatory. However, if those optional tools are not installed pyPassport functionalities are reduce.

_Mandatory_

The following packages are required to run the application.

  * List of other dependencies: python 2.5 or 2.6.
  * List of python dependencies: [http://pyasn1.sourceforge.net/ pyasn1], [http://pyscard.sourceforge.net/ pyscard], [http://www.dlitz.net/software/pycrypto/ pycrypto], [http://peak.telecommunity.com/DevCenter/setuptools setuptools].

Python dependencies can be installed using the code sharing python platform [http://pypi.python.org/pypi PyPI] using the following command:

{{{
    Python/scripts$ easy_install package_name
}}}

===Optional===

To complete the installation, two additional packages should be installed:

  # [http://www.openssl.org/ OpenSSL] for certificate verification; (already included in Mac OSX)
  # [http://dimin.m6.net/software/geojasper/ geoJasper] to manipulate images in JPEG2000 format;

===Offline installation===

Please use the python installer script to install pypassport with the following command:

{{{
    $ python setup.py install
}}}

All files will be installed in the *$PythonDir/sites-packages/pypassport* directory, ready to be imported in your project.

===Online installation===

Once the software reach a stable state, code will be posted on the code sharing python platform [http://pypi.python.org/pypi PyPI].